Hey welcome back.
So let's begin with the very basics of working with files which would be to just read in the data from
an existing file whether it's a file that contains the complete works of Shakespeare in a single file
or every word in the French dictionary or just like a single line or two of text it to do list whatever
the data is.
We follow the same procedure.
So what we do to read in to take advantage of the open function.
So this is one of the few built in functions we haven't covered yet so we don't actually have to import
any module.
We don't have to download anything.
We get access to file IO functionality out of the box with Python.
So the function we want is called open and open which we passed in the name of file name had a bare
minimum.
We have tell it which file makes sense and it returns a File object to us.
So a file is it contains more than the data itself.
There's information about the file like certain permissions data about it or the type of file that it
is.
I believe there's also things like when it was opened or last opened.
I'm not positive on all the data but there's some metadata that goes along with the file so it doesn't
just give you data it gives you an object and then we have to explicitly read in from that object using
a read method.
So quickly I'll show you here the documentation.
If you just go to the very top built in functions click on open you can see that open actually has a
lot of parameters here compact and a bunch of arguments.
But we have to pass in files the only one that doesn't have a default so file is you know dictionary
dot DXi or Alice in Wonderland story or whatever the text or whatever the file is.
And as you can see it opens a file and returns a corresponding file object.
And if the file can't be opened if there's a problem with it's corrupted or I don't know the file you
don't have permission to open it.
Then an error will be raised.
We can give an absolute or relative path name.
So in our example I'll show you but will just work in the same directory.
But if your file is located somewhere else you can reference the path to get there.
So that's all I'll talk about in the docs here.
But if you have questions you can read a lot more.
There are all these very tiny little parameters you can specify like that see replace.
So if there's malformed data how would you like it to be replaced like you want a question mark.
Do you want a sad face.
What do you want to put there.
Or do you want to ignore it.
Same thing with backslashes.
If you have backslashes in your strings that you're importing or that you're reading in.
Do you want to make them Python wise and do the double backslash.
So very tiny things really.
But we're not going to really go into that.
Let's just talk about the important stuff which is opening the file and then doing something with it.
So here's a really simple example.
I already have this story that text file on my computer.
But imagine that this is I don't know 50000 lines instead of a single line.
The process is the same.
So we have a file scale story that takes t.
And then we have open using the built in open function and the name of the file.
And I'm just going to hop to my terminal now open up Python 3.
First I'll just show you the file is right here.
Stories that text me and now open up not on 23 not there just yet.
If I do let's just call it f equals open and then we have to pass in the name of that story Dot T x
t OK.
Now if we look at what f is right now we get this text IO wrapper object it's an instance of the textile
wrapper class.
It also the way that it is printed out it tells us the name of the file mode.
Our means that we are reading it and if we could we could do something like help if you can read a lot
more about this if you want to learn that go into detail about how it actually works in Taqwa buffers
and encoding and decoding and there's a lot of fun stuff with working with files.
And yeah we can scroll through all the methods to Danders but then also methods we can call like close.
We'll talk about that later.
Read are we going to use this one in just a moment read at most and characters from a stream.
So we'll talk with that.
If we print the file right now it's the file object to actually get the data in there even though it's
just a silly little string.
We need to use read which I just showed you and help was a method.
So it's f dot read.
And I don't know if you saw that in help but if I don't specify a number in here it's going to specify
negative 1 which will just give me the entire file.
So we get this short story is really short notice.
There's the new line character because in the file itself if I can show you the file I have a new line
afterwards.
So there we go.
We've successfully read in a file and if we wanted to do it again read was want.
I don't know what's happening what is going on and why can't we read it again.
So we read it once and it worked just fine.
And I read it again and now it's an empty string.
What the heck Python What are you doing.
Well let's go back to our slides.
We need to talk about cursors in order to understand what's going on.
When Python reads a file it uses what's known as a cursor.
You can think of a cursor like what you see when you're typing.
Right when I go back to my text file here if I had a bunch of lines in here my cursor is here.
This is like the place that I am in the text and I can progress through it and move down and you've
seen the cursor before.
It's the same sort of idea in Python.
So after a file is read which we did the first time with EFT outbreed the cursor goes to the end of
the file.
So if we try to read from there there's nothing left to read till we get that empty string.
So it's a bit of a cliffhanger but I'll show you how to fix that in the next video.
Will it go into more detail with cursors.